of February, and we are at 14 St.
Laurent, is that the name?
Laurent.
Laurent in Dallas, and talking to Fort Albritton, class of 43.
And let me begin by asking you the basic question, why did you attend A&M in the first place?
Well, that is interesting.
My father was a Longhorn, and my uncle was a Longhorn, and I grew up
attending the Thanksgiving games, rooting for the University of Texas.
And when I graduated from Omaha High School in Houston, I immediately enrolled in Austin and already had a room in Prather Hall.
And someone had mentioned to my father, my father was a captain of World War I, wounded in warfare over there and had a strong military feeling, even though he was a lawman.
So about six weeks, perhaps two months before school started, someone had suggested that you ought to take your son out there and at least visit A&M.
I'm telling you, that is a fine, fine institution for a number of reasons.
And dad asked me, would you like to go up?
I said, sure, let's go up.
I spent an entire afternoon commandant's office, couldn't have been any better.
I was terribly impressed with the organization, the spirit that I could even feel at that point, and perhaps a feeling of belonging, and I never got that feeling at Austin.
So on the way home, my father asked me, what do you think?
And I said, Dad, I'd like to go to Texas A&M.
So I canceled, and immediately enrolled, and they told me
If I'd make up my mind, I said, well, am I too late to be enrolled?
I said, no, if you'll let us know right away, we can take care of it.
And so I did, and a number of Houston boys from Lamar were going to other schools, and I recruited three of them to come, and they came and got in my outfit.
And I was, I guess the
Well that answers your question, why I went to Texas A&M.
Now you're getting ready to come up and enroll.
How'd you get there?
My father brought me.
What belongings did you bring as a freshman?
Very little.
As I recall, we shaved with a razor in those days and underwear and socks and I think shoes.
But everything else was pretty well dictated to what we wore.
We wore a uniform seven days a week.
Describe, physically, describe the campus when you arrived.
We were very fortunate.
They had just finished Duncan Hall and those dormitories in the Duncan Hall area.
They were the newest, of course, of any of the dormitories.
And it was the first year
And the band, both the infantry and the artillery, field artillery band, were in that area.
In those days, we marched to our meals, which was great.
That was the area that initially we were in.
But all the rest of the campus, what all was there?
Well, I guess I could do a better job of telling you what wasn't there, but the academic building was the hub.
Of course, the administration building, which I understand, I hope, will be the Jack Williams building.
That was an important building.
Those were the two most important, and the Cushing Library, of course, was very important to us.
YMCA building, where Casey was, the North Gate,
And in those days we had stables because in my particular outfit I was horse-drawn.
So the horse-drawn field artillerymen and the cavalry, we were mounted and there were great stables across the railroad tracks where the stables were.
And where was the horse pasture and the cow pasture?
Well now I can't tell you where the horse and the cow pasture was except unless you're pulling my leg.
No, I had heard some old-timers refer to where the bonfire is held now, the northeast corner over Highway 6 and University and Texas Avenue, that that was the horse pasture and the cow pasture was where the golf course is now.
I had heard some old, old-timers refer to that.
Well, that was prior to my being there because when I got there, no, that was pretty well a habitation area.
Tell me about being an Aggie fish in the fall of 39.
Fall of 39.
Well, the most impressive thing, initially the most impressive thing, and perhaps it was the most impressive event in my tenure at A&M.
Freshman, in those days we had about 75 or 80 members of your battery.
It was a battery, field artillery battery, it was the unit.
And this young captain of our unit, G Field, lined us up and we all wore in those days those white fatigue suits.
All freshmen wore those.
And they had us lined up and he was something else.
He had the carriage, he had that look in his face.
He didn't say a word for at least 30 or 45 seconds, just walked in front of us, not in a commanding way or arrogant way at all, just mainly letting us know that he was there.
And he was his campaign hat on, he had his senior boots and spurs, and then he came to rest there in front of us and began to tell us what was expected of us.
and complimented us on choosing Texas A&M and there'd be some rigorous times for you because of the traditions that went along with being a freshman and being an Aggie.
And with every word and every movement the fella made, I made up my mind then that I had made my first goal in life and that was to be a battery commander.
I wanted to do with my freshman, my senior year precisely,
what this fella had done for me.
And so it was, that was by far the most impressive thing.
Tell me about dormitory life then for you as a freshman.
Well, it was very rigorous.
In those days there was hazing.
It never bothered me.
We had physical hazing which
was duck walking up and down the halls, and they used to have what they called bleed meetings, and that's where the sophomores took care of the freshmen.
That is, they're the ones who saw that they performed certain things and they were the hazers, so to speak.
The juniors, by the time you were a junior, you really didn't care and the seniors had nothing to do with it.
They did not.
They had other responsibilities.
But there was hazing, but one of the fine things was you had to be in your room 30 or 40 minutes after mess hall and you had to study and you couldn't turn your lights out until as I recall it was 10 o'clock and they had
fellows in the organization would come check on us.
And if you couldn't get on the sack, you really did have to study and I thought that was very good.
You used the word hazing.
Did this word hazing include people physically doing anything to you?
Hitting you, grabbing you?
Not grabbing ever.
We never had to polish shoes.
Yes, we had some physical paddling, yes.
Did that start early?
or did it wait till Thanksgiving or anything?
Oh no, no.
That started within the first week or ten days.
For what would a student be, a freshman be paddled?
No particular reason.
Okay.
The sophomores had full reign of punishment or the hazing thing and there really wasn't, there really wasn't rhyme or reason.
Just that that was a privilege they had.
It's a sophomore privilege and
Some of them took advantage of it to perhaps too far.
What happened if a sophomore missed his mark in paddling and hit somebody a little high or a little low?
I never heard that ever happening.
Never.
Not one time did I ever.
Because see, I heard occasionally that then the freshman would get to return the favor.
I think it was a freshman privilege, but I never recall it ever having happened.
Was your fish old lady a special friend?
Did he become a special friend?
No, you mean the fellow that I took care of?
No, you- Oh, my roommate?
Your roommate.
Oh, I had the same roommate for four years.
The four years I was there, John Weaver from Houston.
Yeah, we were total opposites and we just got along very, very well.
Great roommate.
He became a major on the staff his senior year.
Did y'all use the slang term then, fish old lady?
I think that I've heard that term, but it doesn't have a great meaning to me because my roommate really is.
Tell me then about dining hall events for a freshman.
Where did y'all eat and tell me about the routine.
Well, we ate in the New Duncan dining room, which was great.
And I thought the food was terrific.
I just thought it was great.
We got all the milk, and kush is what they call dessert.
We'd wait until all the upperclassmen were gone, and we'd raise the tables for milk, and we had that privilege.
Freshmen had that privilege.
Of course, we had to pass the food, and there were certain words denoting different types of food.
Share those.
Well, kush, of course, was dessert.
Gee, I'll have to remember now.
What was bread?
I can't recall now what some of them were.
Tea, butter?
I just don't remember.
But there were, we had our own glossary of terms as it relates to food.
Did, let's see, your outfit, did it have a nickname?
No, it was G Field Artillery.
And no, we didn't have a nickname.
Was there any outfit on the campus that supposedly was the leader?
Was there a prestigious?
Was there one outfit that was supposedly more prestigious?
And was there a tail end outfit?
I've never heard of any.
No, I don't know of any distinction.
We were the honor battery my junior year.
But you had to earn that.
Oh yes, indeed.
Well that was strictly the military, the military staff.
How did you get to, based on what?
Well, we were pretty good horsemen and we had a good outfit and we took our training seriously and of course we wanted to excel.
We did our junior year.
Alright, tell me about a typical week's routine for a corps.
As a freshman?
Well of course we
I call them errands, but we, again, it was an upperclassmen's privilege to send freshmen all over the campus cleaning, to pick up cleaning, take cleaning, go get them a Coke, any number of things that freshmen had to do.
In those days, there weren't any automobiles.
When I was a freshman, I don't remember an automobile in our old situation.
So walking was very natural for us.
The campus wasn't all that large anyway, but we did.
We had to go with chores, certain chores that we had to perform.
Alright.
Give me a typical class day.
Take me through from Reveille through Taps.
Yes, when Reveille was sounded we dressed and we had calisthenics every morning.
As I recall, the top kick, I was first sergeant, top kick and also later battery commander.
As I recall, that was done by the first sergeant.
We had calisthenics every morning and excellent drill and it helped us so much.
so much later when we got into the service.
That was a lot of ways.
Did you do that as freshman, calisthenics?
You did, you do calisthenics freshman, sophomore, and junior.
That was, the seniors did not have to take calisthenics.
This was before breakfast?
This was before breakfast.
Okay.
And then you get dressed and go, you didn't march to breakfast.
And you'd go eat, and I don't recall, but there again, freshman
slept at the foot of the bed.
They didn't eat exactly like that.
Then classes began at 8 o'clock.
8 o'clock.
What did you do if you had an off hour?
Usually, I would go to the library.
Cushing was right in the center of everything.
But if you had a couple of hours, you go back to the dorm and then go again.
We were all used to walking.
That wasn't any problem at all.
But see, in those days, I've got a grandson who's graduating now at A&M, and I had two sons go to A&M.
And we carried 17, 18, 19 hours, and if you had a couple of labs, you were 20, 21 hours.
These youngsters today, I'm told, they take what, 12, 14 hours?
They get fussed about 12.
But I have to admit, some of the courses they take, they're tough.
They're great.
I think Robert, this semester is up to 18 or 19 hours.
Alright.
Lunch, did you all fall in and march to lunch?
No, not at lunch.
Okay.
No, we didn't.
Dinner, evening.
It was very, yes.
What time?
March to dinner.
I'm going to say six-ish.
Okay.
And you all over there in the new dorm area, you all fell out?
Fell out and marched as battalions.
Over there in that area we had the field artillery and the infantry.
They were the two largest.
Chemical warfare was there.
Engineering was not.
Signal Corps was not.
Cavalry was not.
So we had all the various arms in those days.
And we'd all march.
It was just like a review.
I mean, it was fun.
It really was.
And that was a chore to me.
How did you dress?
What did you wear to class?
In the winter, of course, we had our fall uniforms, wool, and in the spring we had cotton.
And depending on the weather, we were committed to wear real, real cold.
We could wear a top jacket that didn't have to be government issued.
What kind of... Always our hat, you know, that we wore in those days.
No, no, not on campus.
You didn't wear that.
No, you wore your... Your round?
Yes.
With the bill.
Well, it was all the way around the bill.
Oh.
No, it was our... It was... You mean the campaign?
Yeah, it was always a campaign.
Oh, okay.
Always a campaign.
Yeah.
But I don't recall... I can't recall whether we wore those to class or not.
I know we did certainly...
When we marched, each evening we had full uniform in every respect.
During the day, I believe we did, but I can't swear.
I just don't remember.
Share with me some pranks, jokes, good bull that you may have known about whether you were involved in or not.
Well, I think we had a clever act.
And for some reason, there were about 12 or 14 others from Houston.
I think there were 40 freshmen in my outfit, 35 or 40.
And 8 or 9 were from Houston.
And we were always in trouble.
We had some Dallas sophomores, we had some Louisiana sophomores.
one Saturday evening when there was a core dance, they kept us and wouldn't let us go.
They wouldn't let us get out of the dormitory.
And the fellas that really were part of it didn't go themselves.
In our freshman year, there was an air.
The doors came up within about eight inches of the floor.
That was for air.
Later they took them down.
And so we were sitting around feeling sorry for ourselves, playing cards.
One of us got the idea that, tell you what let's do.
Let's get us a roll of toilet paper and let's get it good and wet.
Let's take one of those cherry bombs, we all smoked one the other day.
Let's put it in the middle, this is the truth, put it in the middle, put a cigarette butt on it and let's roll it right into their room.
And we all went to our rooms and that thing went off.
There were little tiny pieces of toilet paper all over that roof.
And it was fabulous.
Well, you know who was cleaning up that room the next day?
The eight of us.
We were cleaning it up.
But that was all right.
We'd caused nothing.
Turn that off if you don't give in there.
I want to tell you something.
Any other good bull that you can share?
No, I don't, other than just the normal things.
Did y'all use that phrase then?
Good Bull?
Oh sure, yeah.
Bull sessions.
We had lots of bull sessions.
What was it like to be a sophomore?
Well, let me go back.
I do remember one other thing.
We used to have airing outs.
An air out was when the upperclassmen would come 1 o'clock in the morning
They'd have buckets of water or wastebaskets of water.
Sometimes it was warm and had suds in it.
And they all do it in unison and they call air out.
And just as they do that, they throw in your bed this water.
And then they got their belts and their boards and they're chasing you.
And man, you take out, I mean, 30, 40 of us just running like sin in our skivvies or whatever.
And we'd have to stay out there two, three, four hours a night.
That was just part of the tradition.
Sophomore year was, of course that's the year when you gain the main privileges.
You're not a freshman or a fish any longer.
But I had my sights set on, earlier I think I remarked, I really did want to be battery commander.
And then there was a stage,
you had to win the best drill medal your sophomore year to have a chance of being first sergeant.
If you did that, then you had to be an automatic, but you look pretty good for the spot.
And then usually, the first sergeant, the junior year, if you're as good as you should be, then you will go to the battery commander.
So my sophomore year, I had that goal, but I did want to be the best drill sophomore.
And I had fun with a freshman.
But I didn't, I don't think I wheeled very much.
They were good freshman, I didn't.
Do you remember any tricks they played on you as a sophomore?
No.
We used to have at A&M, we called it
What was it?
They, what they do, it's an old, it's an old deal.
I don't know whether you've been told about it, but this happened to me.
I have to go back to my freshman year again.
They, it's Mabel.
Have you heard about the Mabel situation?
Well, about the second or third month you're there, of course you're interested in dates.
You can't get them.
And Brian Girls are about the only gals around.
And, uh,
So usually it's Bryan oriented and boys who live in Bryan, we're in the Corps.
And they tell you about this gal who lived out in the country about three or four miles.
And boy, she was something special and loved Aggies.
And you think we can set you up now?
It'll be a special situation for you.
So sure enough, they come around and they get you.
And do you know, did you know John Lawrence, by chance?
Well, John, did you know Bob Butler?
Bobby Benbow.
You know Dr. Benbow?
Okay.
Those three picked me up.
And so we drove out and it was really where Colterfield is, right in that area.
And you get out and you walk and one of them says, Mabel, hey Mabel.
And you hear a voice, say, who's that?
One of them says, I've got Fort Albright in here and is that SOB that's been messing around here at the house and without a shotgun goes off.
And then another shotgun.
And these guys, you know, they said, God, we'd better run for our lives.
We took out across that highway.
I'm telling you, there was a fence.
There was a barbed wire fence.
I don't know how I got over it, but I did.
And there was a creek at the other side of there.
And these fellas would fall.
One of them would say, oh.
I just knew you don't stop.
All that does is just get you going a little more.
So then you're left out there.
They don't pick you up.
That's your baby to get back.
That's part of the problem.
So we couldn't wait to do it and we did.
A number of times after that.
And I took some of my Houston friends who didn't know anything about it.
And not one of them ever stopped for me either.
I mean, when that gun went off at least the second time, they put it in high gear and you were... So Mabel was a...
It was more fun and we did it right after our senior year.
We'd figure out really some boy that was really a go-getter with the girls, we'd have fun.
Tell me about some of the memorable teachers, faculty members, advisors from your student days.
Well, we had Colonel Bowles was
commander of the field artillery.
B-O-L-E-S.
Yeah, I think it was B-O-L-E-S.
And I'm sure it's in my long haul.
And he was just fabulous.
And then we had the horse officer who was a major.
I can't remember his name now.
But they were very impressive.
Chick Salem.
Remember Chick?
Chick was one of our officers.
And I forget the other one now, but we were very blessed to have fine officers working with us.
They were memorable.
I majored in economics and minored in history.
We didn't have a business degree in those days with either ag-eco or the liberal arts school and go for economics, which I did.
And I minored in history, as I say, and Dr. Stein, Steen, Dr. Steen.
Ralph Steen.
Ralph Steen absolutely was the most interesting prof I ever had.
And, of course, he went on to be president of Stephen F. Austin, Nacogdoches.
Did you all have a nickname for him?
Many faculty members had a nickname.
I've not heard one.
Well, we had one for Gammon.
I guess you've heard that one.
Oyster Joe.
Yeah, Oyster Joe.
No, I don't remember that Frank ever had one.
What about in economics?
Tell me about some of the... Dr. Chalk, I think Chalk had just come.
And there was another gentleman that taught us business law, excellent teacher.
And I was blessed with good teachers, I really was.
Can you remember any of the other faculty nicknames?
It was a nickname for the little major that was really the horse, the real horse officer, but I can't remember his name.
I can't remember, but I was crazy about him.
He was a quaint little fellow.
I don't remember his name.
What were the expected norms about class attendance and behavior?
Oh, very strict.
I think it was as much just an honor thing that we all felt that we were behaved.
I think you're always gonna have a 2% really, you know, group.
But all in all, no, we were on time and we didn't act up in class.
It was serious.
And I think a lot of that just happened because of the
the atmosphere and the way we lived and the discipline that we worked with and the integrity.
You know, that's where I learned.
I learned so much there that certainly helped me during my three and a half years in the service when I was overseas in particular.
But in afterlife, great life lessons there as it relates to honor and
being on time and singleness of purpose and all of those things that really make up integrity, that make up for a successful business life or just a successful life, really.
I learned all of them.
I learned them at A&M.
Now, my father was a great teacher of it, but I lived with it.
I mean, I lived with my peers with that.
And I will forever be grateful for those lessons that I learned there.
Now, was there a, we didn't have an MSC then.
Did the YMCA, was it a center of activities?
Well, I never, I didn't, Casey's was downstairs there and that was sort of a soda fountain on campus.
The barbershop, the one I went to, was down there.
I never did, of course, Yale practice was on the steps of the Y.
right between the cavalry group, just that one street there in front.
And there'd be Aggies all over the place, because we had 7,000 in those days.
And that's where the Yale leaders would be on the top step, doing their walk back and forth.
I remember so well all those fellows, they were great.
Guy and Hall, what happened?
Well, Guy and Hall, we had some entertainment there.
And that's where I got my degree at Guyton Hall.
And it was awarded there.
And as I said, we weren't commissioned because we missed our summer camp.
Went immediately into Officer Cannon School.
Were movies shown in Guyton?
I don't recall.
The movies that I remember
We'd go into Bryan.
We'd go to Bryan.
When I got there, religious emphasis week was going on.
Were there any religious activities on campus?
Haskell, I'm certain that there was, but I don't recall.
I'd only go to church when I'd go home.
I never did go to church.
When I got to be a sophomore, I began to go home.
My home was Houston.